DAQC2plate Help Revision 1.00

Legacy DAQC Functions:
    Digital Input Functions:
        getDINbit(addr,bit) - return single bit value
        getDINall(addr) - return all eight bits
        enableDINint(addr, bit, edge) - enable interrupts for an input change on
            the specified bit. The "edge" value can be 'r' for rising, 'f' for
            falling, or 'b' for both.
        disableDINint(addr,bit) - disable interrupts on the specified bit

    Digital Output Functions:
        setDOUTbit(addr, bit) - set single bit
        clrDOUTbit(addr, bit) - clear single bit
        toggleDOUTbit(addr, bit) - toggle a single bit
        setDOUTall(addr,byte) - set all the bits a once. Value must be 255 or
            less.

    Analog to Digital Functions:
        getADC(addr, channel) - return voltage from single channel
        getADCall(addr) - return voltage from all channels

    Digital to Analog Converter & Pulse Width Modulator Functions:
        setPWM(addr,channel,value) - set PWM duty cycle from 0 to 1023 (0 to
            100%)
        getPWM(addr,channel) - return current PWM setting.
        setDAC(addr,channel,value) - set DAC output voltage from 0 to 4.095
            volts.
        getDAC(addr,channel) - return current DAC output voltage.

    Frequency Counter
        getFREQ(addr) - returns integer value of the detected frequency on pin 8
            of the extended functions block. Value can range from 1 to
            about 150,000
      
    RGB LED Control Functions:
        setLED(addr,color) - set the LED to one of 8 colors: 
        getLED(addr,color) - return a string with the current LED color
        
    System Level Functions:
        getID(addr) - return Pi-Plate descriptor string
        getFWrev(addr) - return FW revision in byte format
        getHWrev(addr) - return HW revision in byte format
        getADDR(addr) - return address of pi-plate. Used for polling available
            boards at power up.
        intEnable(addr) - enable interrupts from the DAQC. GPIO22 will be pulled
            low if an enabled event occurs.
        intDisable(addr) - disables and clears all interrupts on the DAQC.
        getINTflags(addr) - returns 16 bit flag value then clears all INT flags       

    Definitions:
        Address (addr): DAQCplates have jumpers on the board that allow
            their address to be set to a value between 0 and 7.
        ADC (analog to digital converter) channels can be 0 through 8 for a 
            total of 9 channels. Reading channel 8 will return the power supply
            voltage.
        DIN (digital input) bit values can be 0 through 7 for a total of 8 bits
        DOUT (digital output) bit values can be 0 through 7 for a total of 8
            bits
        PWM (pulse width modulator) channels can be 0 or 1 for a total of 2
            channels. The output values can be between 0 and 1023.
        DAC (digital to analog converter) channels can be 0 through 3 for a 
            total of 4 channels. The output value can be between 0 and 4.096
            volts
        LED (color) valid values are the following strings: 
            'off','red','green','yellow','blue','magenta','cyan','white'
            
Motor Control Mode
    motorENABLE(addr) - places DAQC2 into motor controller mode
    motorDISABLE(addr) - takes DAQC2 out of motor controller mode and returns it
        to legacy DAQC mode.
    motorMOVE(addr,motor,steps) - moves selected motor a fixed number of steps 
        at a step rate and step size set by motorRATE
    motorJOG(addr,motor) - continually spins motor at a step rate and and step
        size set by motorRATE and a direction set by motorDIR.
    motorSTOP(addr,motor) - stops selected motor by keeps coils energized
    motorDIR(addr,motor,dir) - sets motor direction for JOG operation
    motorRATE(addr,motor,rate,stepsize) - sets the step rate and step size of
        selected motor
    motorOFF(addr,motor) - stops and removes power from seleced motor. Also 
        disables an already STOPped motor
    motorINTenable(addr,motor) - enables controller to generate an interrupt
        when selected motor completes a MOVE
    motorINTdisable(addr,motor) - disables interrupts for selected motor
    
    Definitions
        MOTOR (motor) one of two motors can be selected using this variable.
            valid values are 1 and 2.
        RATE (rate) the speed at which the motor rotates in steps per second.
            This parameter can range from 1 to 500 steps per second.
        STEPS (steps) the number of incremental rotations that are applied to a
            motor during a MOVE operation. Range of values is -16383 to 16383
        SIZE (stepsize) steps can be either 'whole' or 'half'. For eample, a
            typical motor has a "whole" step size of 1.8 degrees. If the "half"
            parameter is called out in the motorRATE function, each step will
            result in 0.9 degrees of rotation
            
Function Generator Mode
    fgON(addr,chan) - enable one of function generator channels. Try to limit
        this to no more than two channels.
    fgOFF(addr,chan) - disable an enabled function generator
    fgFREQ(addr,chan,freq) - set the output frequency of the specified channel.
        Must be in the range of 10Hz to 20Khz.
    fgTYPE(addr,chan,type) - set the waveform type of the specified channel.
        Must be an integer number between 1 and 7.
    fgLEVEL(addr,chan,level) - set the output level of the selected channel. 
        Must be an integer value between 1 and 4.
        
    Definitions
        Channel (chan) selects which function generator the command will act
            upon. Must be a value between 1 and 4.
            